### Personal Statement

Human development is always accompanied by the growth of productivity. I always believe computer technology is the primary driving force for productivity in the information age. When I was a child, I often dreamed of changing the world using my own abilities and let people live a better life. Such inner desire encouraged me to choose computer science as the direction throughout my study.

I believe the most important thing to be proficient in a new technology is to apply the theoretical knowledge into practice. During my university study, I have always adhered to such faith into almost every professional course. For example, after I learned the state machine theory and VHDL language in digital circuit course, I developed a simulated elevator controller running on FPGA board in my spare time. When I saw the controller was running perfectly, I felt extremely thrilled and all the effort were worthwhile. Another example is that in the computer systems course, to get a better understanding of the execution process of a CPU, I created a CPU with Y-86 pipeline architecture with Verilog language which could support the execution of sequences of instructions. During the loop of coding and debugging, I found the ingenuity and wisdom in the design of CPU architecture. All such work designed by myself are abundant, and I have recorded all the source codes in the github repository as a treasure of my study. I am confident that I have built a solid and complete knowledge system of computer science and I eager to explore more advanced knowledge. 

In addition to daily learning, I also involved in many competitions and real-world projects to improve my research ability. My classmates and I participated in the National WeChat Mini Program Competition and we won the third place. We developed a meme creation tool kit using AI image processing technology, in which I was responsible for the development of the AI toolbox and the image retrieval function. Image retrieval was a completely new area to me, so I read lots of literature related to image processing and learned several deep learning algorithms. The function was eventually accomplished by implementing the VGG16 neural network to extract feature vectors for images which could obtain good accuracy. In addition, as I am fascinated in big data mining, I used Spark to analyze the dataset of television viewing ratings for a local TV station. The trained model achieved good accuracy on the testing data, and I provided the research results to the TV station to help them promote their viewing ratings. To get more experience in practice, I also did a summer intern in the strategy design and execution phase of several domestic surveying and mapping projects as a data engineer assistant in a cloud computing company. Through such competitions and real-world projects, I developed my ability to solve some real-world problems, in turn, those experiences encouraged me to carry out more in-depth and professional studies. 

A key step to achieve my dream was that I successfully developed a real-time web browser translation plugin called Edge Translate. As a non-native English speaker, I found it is inconvenient to open another translation website or tool during the online reading. To improve the reading experience, I wanted to integrate the translation function with the browser. So, I spent several months in my spare time to learn related technology and finally developed Edge Translate. When I shared it with my friends, they all felt that Edge Translate could provide lots of conveniences. I was encouraged so I published Edge Translate on the Chrome web store as a free plugin. as I only wanted to help people to have better reading experience and did not expect many compliments. To my surprise, I received tens of hundreds online appreciations and many useful suggestions in the first several weeks. Now, Edge translate has become a popular plugin among many Chinese users, which has 20,000 active users under my continually enhancement and maintenance. I feel very satisfied as I can help a lot of people with my professional skills.

When I look back on my whole university study, I found that most of the tools I used were developed by foreign companies and universities which have many high-level research results and good research atmosphere. The most important thing is that such tools are usually open source software which not only satisfies the creators’ own needs, but also improves the productivity of the entire industry. Now my dream is to become a well-trained computer science engineer to let people live a better life. I seek to fulfill my goal in an environment that encourages creativity and motivation. I am confident that XXX university could provide me such environment as I know the university focus on helping students to develop critical thinking and research skills by teaching them how to ask questions and find solutions through exploration. I noticed that some of the professors' research field strongly attracted me. For instance, Prof. XXX’ work …



